Work with InfluxDB logs (#4498)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.4/admin/logs.md

---
title: Manage InfluxDB logs
description: >
  Learn how to configure, manage, and process your InfluxDB logs.
menu:
  influxdb_2_4:
    name: Manage logs
    parent: Administer InfluxDB
weight: 10
---

Learn how to configure, manage, and process your InfluxDB logs:

- [Configure your InfluxDB log location](#configure-your-influxdb-log-location)
- [Configure your log level](#configure-your-log-level)
- [Enable the Flux query log](#enable-the-flux-query-log)
- [Use external tools to manage and process logs](#use-external-tools-to-manage-and-process-logs)
- [Log formats](#log-formats)

## Configure your InfluxDB log location

> By default, InfluxDB output all logs to **stdout**. To view InfluxDB logs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, InfluxDB outputs all logs to **stdout**. To view InfluxDB logs,
```

view the output of the [`influxd`](/influxdb/v2.4/reference/cli/influxd/) process.

- [Write logs to a file](#write-logs-to-a-file)
- [Logs when running InfluxDB as a service](#logs-when-running-influxdb-as-a-service)

### Write logs to a file

To write InfluxDB logs to a file, redirect **stdout** to a file when starting
the InfluxDB service ([`influxd`](/influxdb/v2.4/reference/cli/influxd/)).

```sh
influxd 1> /path/to/influxdb.log
```

{{% note %}}
When logging to a file, InfluxDB uses the [logfmt](#logfmt) format.
{{% /note %}}

### Logs when running InfluxDB as a service

> If using a service manager to run InfluxDB, the service manager determines to location of logs.

Author: ```suggestion
If using a service manager to run InfluxDB, the service manager determines the location of logs.
```

> If using a service manager to run InfluxDB, the service manager determines the location of logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a service manager to run InfluxDB, the service manager determines the location of logs.
```

{{< tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% tabs %}}
[systemd](#)
[sysvinit](#)
{{% /tabs %}}
<!------------------------------- BEGIN systemd ------------------------------->
{{% tab-content %}}

Most Linux systems direct logs to the `systemd` journal.
To access these logs, use the following command:

```sh
sudo journalctl -u influxdb.service
```

For more information, see the [journald.conf documentation](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journald.conf.html).

{{% /tab-content %}}
<!-------------------------------- END systemd -------------------------------->
<!------------------------------- BEGIN sysvinit ------------------------------>
{{% tab-content %}}

When InfluxDB is run as a service, **stdout** is discarded by default (sent to `/dev/null`).

> To store write logs to a file:

Author: ```suggestion
To write logs to a file:
```

1.  Open the InfluxDB startup script (`/etc/default/influxdb`) in a text editor.
2.  Set the `STDOUT` environment variable to the path where you want to store
    the InfluxDB logs. For example:

    ```conf
    STDOUT=/var/log/influxdb/influxd.log
    ```

3.  Save the changes to the startup script.
4.  Restart the InfluxDB service to apply the changes.

    ```sh
    service influxdb restart
    ```

{{% /tab-content %}}
<!-------------------------------- END sysvinit ------------------------------->
{{< /tabs-wrapper >}}

## Configure your log level

Use the [`log-level` InfluxDB configuration option](/influxdb/v2.4/reference/config-options/#log-level)
to specify the log levels the InfluxDB service outputs.

> The following log levels are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB supports the following log levels:
```

to enable Flux query logging. InfluxDB outputs Flux query logs to **stdout**
with all other InfluxDB logs.

{{< tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% tabs "small" %}}
[influxd flag](#)
[Environment variable](#)
[InfluxDB configuration file](#)
{{% /tabs %}}

{{% tab-content %}}
```sh
influxd --flux-log-enabled
```
{{% /tab-content %}}

{{% tab-content %}}
```sh
export INFLUXD_FLUX_LOG_ENABLED=true
```
{{% /tab-content %}}

{{% tab-content %}}

{{< code-tabs-wrapper >}}
{{% code-tabs %}}
[YAML](#)
[TOML](#)
[JSON](#)
{{% /code-tabs %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
```yml
flux-log-enabled: true
```
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
```toml
flux-log-enabled = true
```
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{% code-tab-content %}}
```json
{
  "flux-log-enabled": true
}
```
{{% /code-tab-content %}}
{{< /code-tabs-wrapper >}}

{{% /tab-content %}}

{{< /tabs-wrapper >}}

_For information about configuring InfluxDB, see [InfluxDB configuration options](/influxdb/v2.4/reference/config-options/)._

## Use external tools to manage and process logs

Use the following popular tools to manage and process InfluxDB logs:

### logrotate

> [logrotate](https://github.com/logrotate/logrotate) is designed to simplify the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[logrotate](https://github.com/logrotate/logrotate) simplifies the
```

and analyzing log files from a terminal.
The lnav viewer provides a single log view, automatic log format detection,
filtering, timeline view, pretty-print view, and querying logs using SQL.

## Log formats

InfluxDB outputs logs in one of two formats depending on the location of where
logs are output.

- [Console/TTY](#consoletty)
- [logfmt](#logfmt)

### Console/TTY

**When logging to a terminal or other TTY devices**, InfluxDB uses a console-friendly format.

##### Example console/TTY format
```sh
2022-09-29T21:58:29.936355Z	info	Welcome to InfluxDB	{"log_id": "0dEoz3C0000", "version": "dev", "commit": "663d43d210", "build_date": "2022-09-29T21:58:29Z", "log_level": "info"}
2022-09-29T21:58:29.977671Z	info	Resources opened	{"log_id": "0dEoz3C0000", "service": "bolt", "path": "/Users/exampleuser/.influxdbv2/influxd.bolt"}
2022-09-29T21:58:29.977891Z	info	Resources opened	{"log_id": "0dEoz3C0000", "service": "sqlite", "path": "/Users/exampleuser/.influxdbv2/influxd.sqlite"}
2022-09-29T21:58:30.059709Z	info	Checking InfluxDB metadata for prior version.	{"log_id": "0dEoz3C0000", "bolt_path": "/Users/exampleuser/.influxdbv2/influxd.bolt"}
```

### logfmt

> **When logging to a file**, logs are written in **logfmt**, a machine-readable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When logging to a file**, InfluxDB uses **logfmt**, a machine-readable
```
